I would like you to be an expert
in the business model of platforms
that understands very well
what the differences with
a linear model are, what the
implications it has.
Because as I said, as I say
many times, platforms are
recurring all sectors, that
is, it is convenient that we
understand why, right?
I'll share with you four conclusions
about the differences
between a more scalable platform
and a business.
It's much easier to grow with
rising returns if your business
model is a platform
that is a linear model.
You will understand it very easily.
I'll compare you to Marriott
with Airbnb, which are
that might be competitors in
some way.
Marriott is a hotel chain.
If Marriott wants to grow, what
it has to do is invest in the
assets that are hotels and
staff.
If you open a new hotel, you have
to make a huge investment, right?
If you want to grow around
the world, then imagine
the capital needs you have
to cover, huge investments.
Airbnb is the platform
that has already created it.
So if you want to grow globally,
your model is much more scalable
because you don't have to make
permanent additional investments.
It would be the same comparison
as if we compare a
taxi company in operation
with Uber.
would be the same.
The taxi company would have to buy
more cars and more licenses and Uber
doesn't have to do so, because
the platform is a resource,
as I say, scalable.
The first conclusion is that they are
more scalable.
The second conclusion is that
I want you to know that it is giving
an effect that they call The Winner
Takes It All.
The winner takes everything.
What is happening in many sectors
is that one, two or maybe three
platforms are doing with
the entire market.
If we look for examples, we will
see that it is always so.
This is due to the network effect.
Let me see if I can
pass it well.
This is because the first platforms
that gain traction, which start
to catch speed, keep in mind
that a vicious circle occurs,
because the more users you
have, the more value you bring.
And by bringing more value, that allows
you to capture more users,
virtuous circle.
A virtuous circle is generated
that helps you or helps
the first platforms to catch
traction, speed, to gain
momentum and somehow barren the
others.
Because the others are not able to
bring the value of the
platforms that are winning the game.
In the end, they become monopolies.
This is true of social media,
such as Facebook.
Tucson is a case.
Tuenti is true that it grew up
in Spain, but then Facebook's
growth worldwide was devastating
and devastated them
all.
Social media is very small
and is all around the
world.
Another conclusion, another difference,
another very important implication
of a platform's business model,
and this is very important
to keep in mind, is that the
barriers to entry are much
larger.
And that is the main reason
they are more valued.
A platform has greater entry
barriers than a linear business,
always.
This is also due to the network effect.
This is because the established platforms,
which have gained critical mass,
think for example in a marketplace
like Amazon or eBay, for example,
which they already have, or
as an immovable portal,
which already have a lot of
critical mass both in the supply
and in the demand.
Having reached all that critical mass
allows them to generate enormous
value because they are adding
the entire market.
Well, now tell me how a potential
competitor comes from scratch
to, say, take the quota
from the platforms
that are already deployed.
It is very difficult, it is very difficult
because the one that starts from zero does
not bring any value.
This is different in a linear business.
In a linear business, you bring
value from the first customer
to the last and the same value.
Let's go back to the example of
Marriott versus Airbnb.
Airbnb's business has a lot
of bigger entry barriers
than Marriott's.
You can compete with Marriott
perfectly.
Marriott has a hotel, you open a
nearby hotel that is a little better,
a little cheaper, whatever it
is, and you'll earn market share.
You're going to steal customers from Marriott.
There is almost no entrance barrier.
Much or much lower.
In the case of Airbnb, the entry
barrier is huge because it adds
to the global range all the supply
and demand for housing, urban
accommodation, holiday accommodation.
It is much more protected, so
the business is much more valuable.
On the other hand, in a negative
way.
This is when you want to create
a zero platform.
When you want to create a zero
platform you don't have users,
neither on one side nor on the other.
This is called the egg and
chicken challenge, where to start.
This is a huge difficulty you
have to consider if you are going
to build a platform.
It is a huge challenge.
In addition to the entry barrier, in addition
to there being a competitor that is
already implanted and that is generating
a huge value and you start from
scratch and you have very difficult
to compete with him.
In addition to that, you have the problem
that, and it is also generated by
the Network Effect, that when there
are no users you do not bring value.
If you don't add value, you can't
capture users.
In this case, it is not a virtuous
circle that helps you grow, it is a vicious
circle that prevents you from growing.
You think you are running a dating
network, for example, like Tinder
or Happen, and you don't have users
yet, you don't have boys or girls.
You can't get more users, you
can't get more users.
This is, as we said, a network
effect.
There are no users, there is no value.
This is something that many
entrepreneurs should take into account
because I have met people who are,
even in the present time,
are trying to undertake creating
platforms or marketplaces, without
having valued this, this difficulty
that they will find, of the egg and
chicken or of the Network Effect,
that when you are big benefits
you because your business is very
much worth, but until you reach that
critical mass is that your business
is very complicated and in addition
to grow you will need a lot
more money, a lot more money
than if you mount a linear
business, imagine that
if you mount an e-commerce.
You run an e-commerce and want to
sell, because I don't know, shoes.
Well, because with the first
shoe you sell to the customer you
bring value, earn money, have
a margin and good, because it can
allow you to continue growing,
finance your growth, etc.
But if you set up a marketplace,
imagine, I put you a marketplace where
you add the sellers and buyers shoes
in the world until you have thousands
of sellers and thousands of buyers,
you do not bring value to anyone,
neither the seller nor the buyer,
you understand the difference,
then the difficulty is much larger
and you need a lot more money because
you have to finance all that
bestial growth on both sides
and you also have to finance
the fact that at first you
will not be able to bring
value, your margins will
be super low, you will
not be able to monetize, etc.
Therefore, it is something that
business managers with who are
with that have a platform business
model should consider.